

Christopher Haworth on how the ea community efforts to "[smorther the technological support upon which it relies... In a section called 'Ignoring Technology,' Smalley asserts that the listener must [[quote: try to ignore the electroacoustic and computer technology used in the music's making. Surrendering the natural desire to uncover the mysteries of electroacoustic sound-making is a diffult but necessary and logical sacrifice. {Smalley 1997, p. 108) endquote]]"

"that 'reality' does not precede the mundane practives in which we interact with it, but is rather shaped within these practices" (Mol 1999 p75) [Haworth continues]: "therefore, what a thing 'is' is nor closed and cimply lying there waiting to be interpreted, but open, actively practiced, and under negotiation" (Haworth 43) (credit to Mol 1999 p75) 

"...spectromorphology's ontology hinges on a version of the so-called 'neutrality thesis'. This is the view that technology is value=neutral and exists merely as a means to some predetermined end. [Feenberg 1995, p23=] Most famously critiqued by Martin Heidegger (1977), neutrality in art goes hand in hand with the idealist notion that the artist's tools are no more than a conduit of an nmediated and determinate vision." (43)

"Because the theoretical model of a sound-synthesis or signal-processing procedure and its material implementation in software are not bound by any necessary relationship, multiple instantiations arise -- commersial, open source, self-authored custome software -- each bearing different interaction paradigms." (43)

"...conceiving of technology as 'just tools' represents a way of navigating the variegated terrain of electronic music techniques: it is to scrape away complexity to uncover the music's perceived 'essence'" (43) <<<<THIS. away to connect to your paper for SPTH6155, since this is a reference to Heidegger's 'the question concerning technology'. ((but where Heidegger speaks about the 'instrumental view of technology', does this line up well with Haworth's discussion of instrumentality in EA?))



